From: Frank Strauss <strauss@ibr.cs.tu-bs.de>
Newsgroups: comp.protocols.snmp,comp.dcom.net-management
To: mibs@ops.ietf.org, snmpv3@lists.tislabs.com, libsmi@ibr.cs.tu-bs.de
Date: 21 Jun 2002 16:45:00 +0200
Subject: libsmi-0.4 announcement
Message-ID: <libsmi-0.4-ANNOUNCE@ibr.cs.tu-bs.de>

Libsmi 0.4 is available for download.

Copyright (c) 1999-2002 Frank Strauss, Technical University of Braunschweig.

Libsmi is a C library that allows network management applications and
MIB and PIB authoring tools to access SMI MIB module information and
SPPI PIB module information through a well defined API that hides the
nasty details of locating and parsing MIB or PIB modules.  Libsmi
supports exact and iterative retrieval functions for all major SMIv1/v2
and SPPI constructs.

There are five tools on top of the library and a sh/awk-script:

  - Smiquery allows simple queries for single MIB/PIB module items.

  - Smilint allows to increase the verbosity of the parser(s), so that
    module files can be checked for syntax and semantic errors.

  - Smidump can be used to dump MIB and PIBmodules in various
    formats. The current output backends allow to dump trees of OIDs,
    type definitions and recursive imports, to convert modules between
    SMIv1 and SMIv2, to dump SPPI PIBs, to produce JIDM compliant
    CORBA-IDL files, UCD-SNMP code stubs, MOSY style output, JAX Java
    AgentX sub-agent templates, XML and XML-Schema MIB
    representations, Perl and Python representations, graphical
    conceptual models, and SCLI code stubs.

  - Smidiff allows MIB authors, MIB reviewers and implementors to
    compare two revisions of the same MIB for legal and illegal
    changes.

  - Finally, smistrip allows to strip SMIv1/v2 and SPPI modules from
    documents like RFCs and Internet-Drafts.

Enclosed with the libsmi package, there are all (bug fixed) current
IETF standard MIB modules as of 2002-06-21, as well as some other
modules, some SPPI PIBs that are taken from Internet Drafts, man pages
for all library functions and tools, and a small libsmi test suite.

The software comes with automake/autoconf and libtool support. Hence
it should compile and build with or without shared libraries on most
UNIX style platforms, as well as on W32/cygwin, though it's just
developed on Sun Solaris 2.5.x and Linux. However, questions about all
platforms can be discussed on the libsmi mailinglist.

For those familiar with recent libsmi development: The most
significant changes since the previous 0.3.x releases is the addition
of the SPPI parser (which is integrated into the SMI parser), the
addition of an SPPI dump driver (both supplied by Moritz Bunkus), and
major enhancements of the XML Schema dump driver (supplied by Torsten
Klie).  Furthermore, a number of bugs have been fixed and many
Standard MIB modules and PIB modules have been updated and added.

Online information on libsmi together with download and CVS access
information, the (free) license terms, manual pages, and the mailing
list is available at:

	http://www.ibr.cs.tu-bs.de/projects/libsmi/


Enjoy!

	Frank Strauss <strauss@ibr.cs.tu-bs.de>
